In loving memory of John Daniel Shay, an extraordinary soul who graced our lives for 20 ?precious years. Born on March 7, 2003, he departed this life on December 13, 2023, after a ?valiant and dignified four-month battle with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.?John spent his earliest years in Londonderry, NH until moving to Cornville, ME, at age six.  He ?briefly attended Bloomfield Elementary before transferring to the Community Regional Charter ?School. It was there, ohn began to truly flourish, both as a student and individual. Inspired by an ?extraordinary math teacher,  joining the Lego Robotics team and mentored by his Uncle Kenny, ?John quickly developed an interest in computer programming and mathematics.  He started dual ?enrollment courses at KVCC his sophomore year and went on to graduate from Overman ?Academy in 2021 with nine college courses under his belt.   At the time of his passing, John was ?completing a double major in Computer Programming and Mathematics at UMaine Orono where ?he consistently made the Dean's List, while participating in both math club and a machine ?learning research project under the direction of his most admired professor.  There was no ?doubt he would fulfill his dream of obtaining a PhD. ?John was a true gift to his close family and friends.  His sweet "old soul" embodied an easy-?going, genuine, unpretentious demeanor that captured the hearts of all who knew him. An ?introvert, he had an unusual capacity to stand alone. It was common to find him, tucked away in ?the background, listening to music or podcasts on YouTube and reading, content to quietly ?observe the world from a distance. Seemingly wise beyond his years, John was reserved, ?steadfast in "doing the right thing", intentional in avoiding "drama", and grateful for a simple ?existence. He was dedicated to the pursuit of the best version of himself and found value in the ?aspects of life that are earned, not bought. A consummate deep thinker, he loved learning and ?all matters of logic. He loved talking about complex ideas and abstract math, which frequently ?exceeded the comprehension of his audience.  He relished a hard won chess game, a flawless ?attack on LOL or Valiant, and challenged himself to solve complex math problems in his head. ?He appreciated alternative/ different perspectives and always enjoyed a good debate, especially ?satisfied if he felt he prevailed with wit and sound reasoning. He savored new foods and fine ?dining, often rating family dinners on a 1-10 scale against Gordon Ramsey (which never fared ?well for the cook). Most importantly, John was loyal to family. His gentle personality, and helpful, ?considerate nature stood out, quickly making him the nucleus of our family. His efforts to stay ?connected created special relationships with those he loved, especially "The Uncles" and his ?beloved "Nana" whom he spent each summer at his favorite place (besides his bedroom) at the ?family camp on Lake Winnipesaukee.  Although John's journey was brief, he earned the ?admiration of many for his humble spirit and depth of character. His ability to maintain integrity ?and grace  throughout his arduous, painful and relentless battle with cancer is a testament of his ?strength and conviction. John's exceptional intellect, passion for the unusual,  and willingness to ?take on challenges,  coupled with his candid, astute and often sarcastic observations of the ?world brought fresh perspective, many laughs and much delight/pride to our family. He set a ?high bar for those around him. He was just plain special. ?Though John's physical presence is no longer with us, his spirit will forever reside in our hearts. ?The profound grief we feel is a testament to the extraordinary love he brought into our lives. ?John, you added an indelible, unique, and brilliant light to our world, and your legacy, "Shay ??2.0", will live on in us all. ?May your spirit find eternal peace, and may we strive to carry forward your character,  strength, ?integrity and the selflessness you so generously shared with us. You are deeply loved, forever ?missed and will always be remembered as the best version of our family.  Until we meet again. ?John is predeceased by his loving "Papa", Daniel James Shay and survived by his parents, ?November and Curi Poulin, his grandparents " Nana" Laureen Shay,  Greg Hopkins, "Grammy" ?Dianne Corson, "The Uncles" Danny, Kenny, and Kevin Shay, and many other loving family ?members and friends.?In lieu of flowers, please consider making a donation in his honor to:?Ronald McDonald House?250 Brackett Street?Portland Maine 04102?This is a wonderful organization, supported only through donations,  which provides a "a home ?away from home,"  for families with sick children.  It was a vital resource that allowed our family ?to remain by John's side throughout his entire 4 month hospital stay. ?